<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Design Principles</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../../css/TAN-guidelines.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.78.1"/><link rel="home" href="index.xhtml" title="The Text Alignment Network: Official Guidelines"/><link rel="up" href="ch01.xhtml" title="Chapter 1. Introduction"/><link rel="prev" href="ch01s02.xhtml" title="Rationale and purpose"/><link rel="next" href="ch02.xhtml" title="Chapter 2. Starting off with the TAN Format"/></head><body><div class="navheader"><table width="100%" summary="Navigation header"><tr><th colspan="3" align="center">Design Principles</th></tr><tr><td width="20%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="ch01s02.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th width="60%" align="center">Chapter 1. Introduction</th><td width="20%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ch02.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div><div class="sect1"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title" style="clear: both"><a id="design_principles"/>Design Principles</h2></div></div></div><p>To facilitate the research questions mentioned above, the TAN encoding formats and
               this manual have been designed around a few core principles.</p><p><span class="emphasis"><em><span class="bold"><strong>Scholarly freedom: </strong></span>Scholars should be
                  able to create data within their sphere of inquiry simply, expressively,
                  independently, and with fidelity to their guiding lights.</em></span></p><p>
               </p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist" style="list-style-type: disc; "><li class="listitem"><p>Given two ways of expressing the same idea, simplicity is better than
                        complexity, expressiveness than silence. Simplicity and expressiveness
                        should be treated as complementary ideals. In cases where one must be chosen
                        over the other, simplicity is to be preferred. </p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Editors should not have to supply data that is redundant, irrelevant to
                        the immediate points of inquiry, or more reliably and authoritatively found
                        elsewhere.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Editors should be able to register doubt about claims. If in doubt about
                        an assertion, an editor should be able to state alternatives.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Editors should be able to work on the same material indepedently but
                        interoperably.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Editors should work freely within their theories, opinions, and
                        assumptions about language. They should declare those positions, not
                        suppress or alter them. </p></li></ul></div><p>
            </p><p><span class="emphasis"><em><span class="bold"><strong>Scholarly responsibility: </strong></span>Scholars must
                  make their data uniquely citable, and responsibly describe how that data was
                  created.</em></span></p><p>
               </p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist" style="list-style-type: disc; "><li class="listitem"><p>Each TAN file should have an expressive, unique, persistent name that can
                        be cited and used independent of the file's location or availability.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Editors must supply, at the very minimum, the core statements of
                        responsibility that are expected in scholarly communication generally,
                        i.e.:</p><p>
                        </p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist" style="list-style-type: circle; "><li class="listitem"><p>What was done by whom, when.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>What sources have been used.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Who holds rights over the data, and what reuse is
                                 permitted.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>What editorial assumptions and decisions were made in creating
                                 the data.</p></li></ul></div><p>
                     </p></li></ul></div><p>
            </p><p><span class="emphasis"><em><span class="bold"><strong>Human-friendly digital utility:
                  </strong></span>Computers should be able to import, process, and create human-friendly
                  data reliably, consistently, and interoperably.</em></span>
            </p><p>
               </p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist" style="list-style-type: disc; "><li class="listitem"><p>Each human-readable datum should have a computer-readable counterpart, to
                        make the material suitable for linked data (semantic web).</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Given multiple methods of referring to textual units or linguistic
                        concepts, the most human readable method is to be preferred.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>All classes and types of formats in the TAN suite should be structured
                        consistently and predictably.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Validation and recommended best practices should depend upon stable
                        technologies or standards.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Each TAN file should be integrally complete, independent of any
                        organization or third-party software such as text processors or version
                        control software. </p></li></ul></div><p>
            </p></div><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table width="100%" summary="Navigation footer"><tr><td width="40%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="ch01s02.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td width="20%" align="center"><a accesskey="u" href="ch01.xhtml">Up</a></td><td width="40%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ch02.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td width="40%" align="left" valign="top">Rationale and purpose </td><td width="20%" align="center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td width="40%" align="right" valign="top"> Chapter 2. Starting off with the TAN Format</td></tr></table></div></body></html>