<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Rationale and purpose</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../../css/TAN-guidelines.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.78.1"/><link rel="home" href="index.xhtml" title="The Text Alignment Network: Official Guidelines"/><link rel="up" href="ch01.xhtml" title="Chapter 1. Introduction"/><link rel="prev" href="ch01.xhtml" title="Chapter 1. Introduction"/><link rel="next" href="ch01s03.xhtml" title="Design Principles"/></head><body><div class="navheader"><table width="100%" summary="Navigation header"><tr><th colspan="3" align="center">Rationale and purpose</th></tr><tr><td width="20%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="ch01.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th width="60%" align="center">Chapter 1. Introduction</th><td width="20%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ch01s03.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div><div class="sect1"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title" style="clear: both"><a id="d5e39"/>Rationale and purpose</h2></div></div></div><p>Translations, quotations, paraphrases, and so forth—all forms of text reuse—are
               important sources for scholars. Some texts have been lost in their original form and
               can be studied only through later translations, paraphrases, or quotations. And even
               when an original survives, these later versions are often worth study, revealing as
               they do something of the genius or idiosyncrasies of those who translated or quoted
               the original, which in turn sheds light on how words, concepts, and works were
               preserved or altered, shaped or combined across the generations and cultures who read
               and circulated the versions.</p><p>The comparative study of versions of texts requires, as a foundation, some way to
               align words, sentences, paragraphs, and other text segments. Such alignment can be
               challenging. Identifying which words or phrases in a translation correspond to which
               words or phrases in the original might result in complex, overlapping sets. And even
               larger segments such as sentences and paragraphs may not line up well. Further, every
               version of a text is part of a much larger, complex history of text reuse, and proper
               study of that context requires not only multiple versions of multiple works, but
               collaboration across projects and fields of study.</p><p>The Text Alignment Network aims to provide an XML encoding format that permits the
               exchange of detailed independent scholarship on versions of texts. TAN files adopt a
               syntax suitable for humans to read and edit, expressive enough to allow scholars to
               register doubt and nuance, and sufficiently structured to permit complex
               computer-based queries across independent datasets. The format is designed to allow a
               person to concentrate on a set of tasks associated with a specific activity (editing,
               grammatical analysis, word alignment, etc.) without having to worry about other types
               of analysis. The format compels editors to declare their views or assumptions about
               language and texts in a structured manner, so that other users of the data (both
               human and computer) can determine whether the data is suitable for their needs.
               Because nearly all TAN data must be expressed in both human- and computer-readable
               forms, the information can be used in semantic web applications.</p><p>TAN has been designed to support specific research questions such as the
               following:</p><p>
               </p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist" style="list-style-type: disc; "><li class="listitem"><p>How do I encode a text I wish to share in such a way that it is likely to
                        align with other versions of that text?</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>How do I encode quotations of one work in another such that the data
                        might apply to multiple versions of either work?</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>How do I share texts, alignments, or other linguistic data such that
                        anyone using the data will be aware when I make corrections or changes to
                        the material?</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>How do I align multiple versions of a single work when those versions may
                        not match very well, or when the reason for alignment may be vague or
                        ambiguous?</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>How do I make detailed alignments between a source and its translation,
                        when there may be messy many-to-many relationships, and where I might need
                        to express doubt or alternative possibilities of alignment?</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>How do I create a detailed alignment between a source and its translation
                        such that, once completed, the dataset can be interrogated to find out how a
                        certain class of words (roots, part of speech, etc.) gets translated in the
                        target language, and with what frequency?</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>How do I answer the above questions such that my data can be used
                        interoperably by others?</p></li></ul></div><p>
            </p><p>The last question is especially significant, because it is expected that as
               persons or projects share or publish their TAN-compliant texts, there will emerge a
               decentralized corpus of texts along with stylesheets, tools, and applications that
               use TAN texts. As this TAN-compliant corpus grows, its interoperability will allow
               the repertoire of research questions to expand beyond any single-project corpora, to
               allow scholars to fruitfully investigate broader, comparative questions such as:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist" style="list-style-type: disc; "><li class="listitem"><p>For classical Greek texts, how were words with the root -ιστημι ("stand")
                        translated into ancient Latin? In what specific ways did the vocabulary of
                        technical terms shift from pre-Christian translations into later, Christian
                        ones?</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>How do the reformed Chinese translation technique of Sanskrit Buddhist
                        texts, attested by Dao An (312-385 CE), compare to reforms in the seventh
                        and eighth centuries of Syriac translations of Greek texts?</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>How do Arabic translations of Greek texts from the Abbasid period differ
                        from those of Sanskrit?</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Can an anonymous English translation of a modern French novel be
                        identified with known translators of French novels from the same
                        period?</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>How do present-day translations of official United Nations documents
                        differ across languages?</p></li></ul></div><p>These ambitions behind these questions should be tempered by cautions about what
               TAN is not intended to do:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist" style="list-style-type: disc; "><li class="listitem"><p>TAN is not a tool. It is a format. Just as other file formats, such as
                        JPEG, CSV, RTF, and so forth, TAN does not dictate what tools or
                        applications should be used to create, edit, or display TAN-compliant
                        files.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>TAN does not create alignments or, on its own, answer research questions.
                        It merely lays the foundation for such questions to be investigated.
                        Separate applications, stylesheets, and other tools must be developed to use
                        the format for research.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>TAN is not meant to support linguistic data beyond its scope (defined and
                        explained in these guidelines). That is, TAN is a supplement, not a
                        replacement, for other markup formats such as TEI, docbook, and so forth, or
                        other alignment formats such as XLIFF or TMX.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>TAN is not meant to be the most computationally efficient format. XML by
                        its very nature sacrifices terseness—a cardinal virtue for computational
                        efficiency—in favor of human readability. TAN is meant, first and foremost,
                        to support lossless, interoperable exchange in a format transparent to human
                        editors and readers.</p></li></ul></div></div><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table width="100%" summary="Navigation footer"><tr><td width="40%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="ch01.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td width="20%" align="center"><a accesskey="u" href="ch01.xhtml">Up</a></td><td width="40%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ch01s03.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td width="40%" align="left" valign="top">Chapter 1. Introduction </td><td width="20%" align="center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td width="40%" align="right" valign="top"> Design Principles</td></tr></table></div></body></html>