<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>The Principles of TAN Metadata (&lt;head&gt;)</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../../css/TAN-guidelines.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.78.1"/><link rel="home" href="index.xhtml" title="The Text Alignment Network: Official Guidelines"/><link rel="up" href="ch02.xhtml" title="Chapter 2. Starting off with the TAN Format"/><link rel="prev" href="ch02.xhtml" title="Chapter 2. Starting off with the TAN Format"/><link rel="next" href="ch02s03.xhtml" title="Creating TAN Metadata (&lt;head&gt;)"/></head><body><div class="navheader"><table width="100%" summary="Navigation header"><tr><th colspan="3" align="center">The Principles of TAN Metadata (<code class="code">&lt;head&gt;</code>)</th></tr><tr><td width="20%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="ch02.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th width="60%" align="center">Chapter 2. Starting off with the TAN Format</th><td width="20%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ch02s03.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title" style="clear: both"><a id="d5e341"/>The Principles of TAN Metadata (<code class="code">&lt;head&gt;</code>)</h2></div></div></div><p>Unlike <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code>, which carries the raw data, <code class="code">&lt;head&gt;</code>
               contains what is oftentimes called metadata. That is, <code class="code">&lt;head&gt;</code> takes
               data that describes the data. Because the TAN format is intended primarily to serve
               scholars, some metadata requirements are stricter than those in other formats.
               Scholars who use our data really need to know some essential things before
               thoughtfully studying and handling the data we produce. For example, what are the
               sources we have used? Who produced the data? When? What key assumptions have been
               made in producing the data? What rights do other people have to use the data? The
               questions are not difficult to answer, but they are critical.</p><p>Some of these questions are specific to certain types of data, and others can be
               applied universally, no matter what kind of data. We have seen that the TAN
               transcription <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code>s look quite different from those in the two
               alignment files. And there are other kinds of TAN files that cover other types of
               data, such as lexicomorphology and tokenization rules. And TAN may grow to cover
               other kinds of information. So <code class="code">&lt;head&gt;</code> has been concisely and
               predictably structured so it can apply across all TAN formats. This reduces potential
               confusion and makes it easier for other people using our data to find the information
               they want.</p><p>The rigorous scholarly requirements for TAN metadata are offset somewhat by
               another principle that was adopted in the design of TAN, namely, that each format's
                  <code class="code">&lt;head&gt;</code> should focus upon describing the data in
                  <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code> and not other things. That is to say, for the two
               transcriptions in our example above, we should definitely indicate what our sources
               are. But we should not do what librarians do so much better and try to write a
               catalog entry describing the books we have used. Anyone who really wants that
               information should go elsewhere. We need merely point to those other places. The TAN
               format does not forbid us from providing this information. But the
                  <code class="code">&lt;head&gt;</code> is designed so that we can stay focused on the task and
               data at hand.</p><p>TAN was also designed with the assumption that all metadata should be useful to
               both humans and computers. For our example above, we must describe the work we have
               chosen in such a way that <span class="italic">Ring around the Rosie</span> is
               comprehensible not just to the reader but to the computer, using syntax that a
               computer can act upon.</p><p>Take for example the 1881 book we have used for our first transcription. For the
               human reader we can say simply something like "Kate Greenaway, <span class="emphasis"><em>Mother
                  Goose</em></span>, New York, G. Routledge and sons [1881]". But computers need a
               more controlled, predictable syntax before they can be directed to the correct
               edition of <span class="emphasis"><em>Mother Goose.</em></span> The human-readable string is too
               complex, and syntactically opaque. Perhaps a better identifier for a computer would
               be international standard book numbers (ISBNs), which not only distinguish the 1984
               version illustrated by Kayoko Okumura Cussler's novel from the 1984 version
               illustrated by William Joyce but can be used to distinguish the various types of
               editions: hardback, paper, electronic, and so forth. The ISBNs for the Okumura
               version, 0671493159, and for Joyce's, 0394865340, can be converted into a
               machine-actionable string called universal resource names (URNs), in this case
                  <code class="code">urn:isbn:0-671493159</code> and <code class="code">urn:isbn:0-394865340</code>. (Our 1881
               version was published before the ISBN program was introduced, but we will see below
               other ways to name it.)</p><p>URNs are formalized naming schemes that are regulated by a central body (Internet
               Assigned Numbers Authority, IANA) to ensure that people and organizations can
               legitimately coin and use permanent, persistent, unique names for various types of
               things. Ther are URN schemes for journals (by means of ISSNs), articles (DOIs), and
               movies (ISANs), thereby allowing one to refer to them with a unique string that a
               computer can process.</p><p>All URNs are simply names. They don't tell you where an object is, just what its
               name is. To provide a unique <span class="italic">location</span>, however, we
               have universal resource locators (URLs), which might be much more familiar from daily
               use of the Internet, e.g., <code class="code">http://academia.edu</code>. Like URNs, URLs are also
               centrally regulated, with individuals or organizations buying the rights to domain
               names from a central registry (usually through a third-party vendor).</p><p>Both URNs and URLs can be thought of as the same type of thing, namely, a
               universal resource identifier (URI), sometimes called an international resource
               identifier (IRI) to make clear that any alphabet in Unicode, not just Latin, may be
               used. URIs/IRIs are, in essence, nothing more than the set of all URNs and URLs.
               These four acronyms can be easily confused, and it is best to disambiguate them by
               thinking of the last letter in each. URIs/IRIs <span class="bold"><strong>I</strong></span>ncorporate both <span class="bold"><strong>L</strong></span>ocators and <span class="bold"><strong>N</strong></span>ames.</p><p>IRIs are essential to a system frequently called the semantic web or linked (open)
               data, an agreed way of writing and processing data that relies upon IRIs and a simple
               data model to connect them. The semantic web allows independent parties to make
               assertions about things, and if they happen to use the same IRI vocabulary to
               describe those things, computers can make associations between disparate,
               heterogenous datasets. This allows computers to make connections that humans might
               not make on their own. For example, a computer could be used to plot the geographical
               distribution of specific books in different library systems, if it has access to
               published IRIs in different online library catalogs.</p><p>TAN has been designed to be linked-data friendly, and so requires in its head
               almost all data to be representable not just in a human readable form but also as an
               IRI, so computers can act upon the data. (It is this requirement that makes possible
               another principle mentioned earlier, that we should provide metadata about our data
               and not about other things.)</p><p>Our first task, then, in writing the <code class="code">&lt;head&gt;</code> sections of our four
               TAN files is to look for IRI vocabulary that will be familiar to the community of
               practice most likely to use our files. In trying to find suitable IRIs, we will find
               that the persons, things, and concepts we want to describe will be range from
               generally familiar to generally unfamiliar.</p><p><span class="italic">Generally familiar</span>: The two books that provide
               the basis of our transcription are well catalogued and generally known. A number of
               services provided by librarians provide a controlled IRI vocabulary that can be used
               by anyone to describe uniquely a particular version of a book. <a class="link" href="http://www.worldcat.org" target="_top">WorldCat</a> (run by OCLC) and the <a class="link" href="http://catalog.loc.gov" target="_top">Library of Congress</a> are good examples.
               In our case, we have found accurate Library of Congress IRIs for both editions of
                  <span class="emphasis"><em>Mother Goose</em></span>: <code class="code">http://lccn.loc.gov/12032709</code> and
                  <code class="code">http://lccn.loc.gov/87042504</code>. Observe that these two IRIs are, more
               specifically, URLs. If we paste these strings into our browser, we retrieve a record
               that describes the book. But this locator has not taken us to the book per se, only
               to information <span class="italic">about</span> the book. That is because,
               under the principles of linked data, a person or entity who owns a domain name can
               mint URLs based on that domain name <span class="italic">also as names for
                  objects</span>. This subtle point can sometimes be confusing to those who are
               new to the semantic web, because URLs conflate locations and names. Much of the
               motivation for this decision is convenience: by giving an object a name that is also
               a URL, you can then set up a server to tell a computer or a human more information
               about the object that is given that URL's name.</p><p>Let's now find an IRI to name the work we have chosen, <span class="italic">Ring around the Rosie</span>. The work is widely known, and even has a <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ring_a_Ring_o%27_Roses" target="_top">Wikipedia
                  entry</a>. That Wikipedia entry is fortuitous. The Universities of Leipzig and
               Mannheim and Openlink Software have collaborated on a project called <a class="link" href="http://wiki.dbpedia.org/About" target="_top">DBPedia</a>, which is committed to
               providing a unique URN for every Wikipedia entry in the major languages. The DBPedia
               URN for the work we have chosen is
                  <code class="code">http://dbpedia.org/resource/Ring_a_Ring_o%27_Roses</code>. Once again, this
               is both a name and a locator. It names a specific intangible object, namely a nursery
               rhyme that we've called <span class="emphasis"><em>Ring around the Rosie</em></span>, no matter what
               specific version. But if you put that name into your browser, you will get back more
               information about that named object.</p><p><span class="italic">Familiar, but only in small circles</span>: We will
               need to have names for some of the people who edited the file. Most people who
               contribute to the creation of the data file will not be well-known, public figures.
               If they are, and if they are famous enough to have a Wikipedia entry, then a DBPedia
               IRI could be used. Or if some of the contributors are also published authors, there
               is a good chance that they are listed in the databases of either <a class="link" href="http://viaf.org" target="_top">VIAF</a> or <a class="link" href="http://isni.org" target="_top">ISNI</a>, both of which publish unique IRIs for persons. If we find in those
               systems an IRI for someone who created or helped edit the file, we can use it.</p><p>There is a good chance, however, that many contributors will not be listed in
               these general databases. In these cases, we can assign our own IRI to name these
               participants. We have already done something like this by assigning tag URNs to our
               four transcriptions (the value of <code class="code">@id</code> in the rootmost element). We can
               do the same for our editors. If a student Robin Smith has been helping with
               proofreading, we can take an email address for Robin (even one that doesn't work any
               more) and a date when the email was sed and construct a tag URN such as
                  <code class="code">tag:smith.robin@example.com,2012:self</code>. This has a slight drawback in
               that we cannot type this string into our browser to find out more about the Robin,
               but it at least allows us to assign a name that will not be confused as the Robin
               Smith identified by ISNI as <code class="code">http://isni.org/isni/0000000043306406</code>. If we
               wish to go a step further, we could mint a URN from a domain name that we own, and
               set up a linked data service that offers more information, human- and
               computer-readable, about Robin, but this is not required. </p><p>Another example of field-specific IRIs is the concept of relationship between two
               text-bearing objects. We are assuming for the sake of illustration that the version
               published in the 1987 <span class="emphasis"><em>Mother Goose</em></span> is a direct descendant of the
               1881 version. Our assumption is important to declare, because if we had a different
               view on how one related to the other, it would probably affect the specifics of our
               word-for-word alignments. Because no suitable IRI vocabulary yet exists for such
               concepts, TAN has coined an IRI that can be used by anyone wishing to declare that
               the second of two sources descends from the first through an unknown number of
               intermediaries: <code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:bitext-relation:a/x+/b</code>.</p><p>We face a similar issue when thinking about text reuse. We generally consider the
               1987 version to be an adaptation of the 1881 version. And there are not stable,
               well-published IRI vocabularies for text reuse. So we adopt a TAN-coined IRI,
                  <code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:reuse-type:adaptation:general</code>.</p><p>For other examples of IRIs coined by TAN, see <a class="link" href="iris.xml" target="_top">iris.xml</a>.</p><p><span class="italic">Generally unfamiliar</span>: Some things or concepts
               will be unknown to very few people, perhaps only to us. If we plan to refer to that
               thing or concept often, it is preferable to coin a tag URN, as described above. But
               in some cases, we might find that a tag URN we minted for some concept or thing was,
               in hindsight, misleading or poorly constructed, because we hadn't taken into account
               other things that should be named. So if we wish to avoid these kinds of situations,
               we can assign a random IRI called a universally unique identifier (UUID), e.g.,
                  <code class="code">urn:uuid:3fd9cece-b246-4556-b229-48f22a5ae2e0</code>. These uuid URNs, which
               are generated by computers through randomizing functions, are very useful. The
               likelihood that a randomly generated uuid will be identical to any other uuid is
               astronomically improbable, making them reliable, uniquely names for anything (barring
               someone copying and reusing that uuid URN to name some other object or concept).
               Numerous free UUID generators exist, and can be found through Intenet
               searches.</p><p>To humans, a UUID on its own is meaningless, and rather ugly. But it is a good
               start. We always have the option, later, of adding an IRI. It's perfectly fine to
               give one object or concept multiple IRIs. But the reverse is never true. One should
               never use the same IRI to identify more than one object or concept.</p></div><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table width="100%" summary="Navigation footer"><tr><td width="40%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="ch02.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td width="20%" align="center"><a accesskey="u" href="ch02.xhtml">Up</a></td><td width="40%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ch02s03.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td width="40%" align="left" valign="top">Chapter 2. Starting off with the TAN Format </td><td width="20%" align="center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td width="40%" align="right" valign="top"> Creating TAN Metadata (<code class="code">&lt;head&gt;</code>)</td></tr></table></div></body></html>