<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Assumptions in the Creation of TAN Data</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../../css/TAN-guidelines.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.78.1"/><link rel="home" href="index.xhtml" title="The Text Alignment Network: Official Guidelines"/><link rel="up" href="ch04.xhtml" title="Chapter 4. General Underpinnings"/><link rel="prev" href="ch04.xhtml" title="Chapter 4. General Underpinnings"/><link rel="next" href="ch04s03.xhtml" title="Core Technology"/></head><body><div class="navheader"><table width="100%" summary="Navigation header"><tr><th colspan="3" align="center">Assumptions in the Creation of TAN Data</th></tr><tr><td width="20%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="ch04.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th width="60%" align="center">Chapter 4. General Underpinnings</th><td width="20%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ch04s03.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title" style="clear: both"><a id="d5e672"/>Assumptions in the Creation of TAN Data</h2></div></div></div><p>All creators and users of TAN files are expected to share few basic
               assumptions.</p><p>First, all TAN-compliant data is to be understood as largely
                  <span class="emphasis"><em>derivative</em></span>. That is, data files have no originality or
               creativity independent of their sources (but see below about interpretation).
               TAN-compliant data is to be created with intent of adhering as closely as possible to
               some model or archetype. For example, a transcription should replicate faithfully
               some earlier digital edition or text-bearing material object (e.g., stone, papyrus,
               manuscript, printed book for written text; audiovisual media for oral or performative
               texts). Morphological files and alignment files should describe as clearly and as
               reliably as possible their source transcriptions. <span class="emphasis"><em>In creating and
                  publishing a TAN file you claim to have offered a good-faith representation or
                  description of one or more source texts or linguistic concepts; in using a TAN
                  file, you hold the creator to that expectation.</em></span></p><p>Second, all core TAN files are <span class="emphasis"><em>interpretive</em></span>. That is, they
               are permeated by editorial assumptions and opinions that might not be shared by
               everyone. If there is any originality or creativity in a TAN file, it is vested in
               the interpretation of the sources. For example, if you edit a transcription file you
               must decide how to handle unusual letterforms and other visible marks. Your decisions
               will be informed by what you think about the original text, its native writing
               system, and how you interpret and use Unicode. If you write an alignment file, you
               must make decisions about what factors caused one text to be transformed into
               another. Lexicomorphological files require you to commit to one or more grammars and
               dictionaries, and you must discern how best to handle cases of vagueness and
               ambiguity. As a general rule, class 2 files have a greater interpretive dimension
               than do class 1 files, and class 3 than class 2. But no matter the degree, no TAN
               data file ever stands completely outside the interpretive act. <span class="emphasis"><em>In creating
                  and publishing a TAN file you claim to have disclosed the principles behind your
                  interpretive outlook; in using a TAN file, you hold the creator to that
                  expectation.</em></span></p><p>Third, all core TAN files are <span class="emphasis"><em>useful</em></span>. That is, the
               interpretive impluse is assumed to be coupled with an equally strong desire to make
               the data as useful to as wide a group of users as possible, even those who may not
               share your assumptions or interpretation. For example, a creator of a transcription
               file should normalize and segment texts with a minimum of idiosyncracies, adopting
               when possible reference systems that are widely known so as to optimize the alignment
               process. Morphological files should depend whenever possible upon grammars and lexica
               that are broadly used. Alignment files should work with comprehensible categories of
               text reuse. No TAN file will always be useful to everyone, but it should be as useful
               to as many as possible, as frequently as possible. <span class="emphasis"><em>In creating a TAN file
                  you claim to use common, shared conventions whenever possible, and to note any
                  departures; in using a TAN file, you hold the creator to that
                  expectation.</em></span></p><p>There are other important assumptions that can and should be declared in a TAN
               file, and they are addressed in later chapters of these guidelines.</p></div><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table width="100%" summary="Navigation footer"><tr><td width="40%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="ch04.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td width="20%" align="center"><a accesskey="u" href="ch04.xhtml">Up</a></td><td width="40%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ch04s03.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td width="40%" align="left" valign="top">Chapter 4. General Underpinnings </td><td width="20%" align="center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td width="40%" align="right" valign="top"> Core Technology</td></tr></table></div></body></html>