<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Alignments: Principles and Assumptions</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../../css/TAN-guidelines.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.78.1"/><link rel="home" href="index.xhtml" title="The Text Alignment Network: Official Guidelines"/><link rel="up" href="ch07.xhtml" title="Chapter 7. Class 2 TAN files, Annotations of Texts"/><link rel="prev" href="ch07.xhtml" title="Chapter 7. Class 2 TAN files, Annotations of Texts"/><link rel="next" href="ch07s03.xhtml" title="Division-Based Alignments (&lt;TAN-A-div&gt;)"/></head><body><div class="navheader"><table width="100%" summary="Navigation header"><tr><th colspan="3" align="center">Alignments: Principles and Assumptions</th></tr><tr><td width="20%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="ch07.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th width="60%" align="center">Chapter 7. Class 2 TAN files, Annotations of Texts</th><td width="20%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ch07s03.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title" style="clear: both"><a id="alignment_principles"/>Alignments: Principles and Assumptions</h2></div></div></div><p>At the heart of class 2 are alignment files. TAN distinguishes two types of
               alignment. </p><p>The first, aiming at breadth and extent, collects multiple versions of a work to
               present or study them in parallel. Examples from antiquity include the Rosetta Stone
               and Origen's <span class="italic">Hexapla</span>. This macroscopic alignment
               helps a reader notice similarities and differences among comparable texts. </p><p>The second, aiming at depth and precision, isolates two versions of a work and
               explains how and why certain letters, words, or phrases in one version were omitted,
               retained, or changed in the other. This microscopic alignment characterizes the modus
               operandi of very precise, detailed commentaries on texts and their translations. One
               could also see the apparatus criticus of a critical edition as a kind of microscopic
               alignment.</p><p>Although the two types of alignment can be easily combined, in practice they tend
               to be separate. Similarly, TAN alignment has been distinguished in two formats, one,
                  <span class="bold"><strong>TAN-A-div</strong></span>, to facilitate the general alignment of
               any number of class 1 files; the other, <span class="bold"><strong>TAN-A-tok</strong></span>,
               the detailed alignment of any two. For cases where both precision and breadth are
               required, multiple files of the latter should be used.</p><p>TAN aligments attest to acts of translating, paraphrasing, revising, quoting,
               summarizing, and so forth. All these are treated as types of text reuse, where one or
               more texts, usually called in translation studies the <span class="emphasis"><em>source</em></span> (or
                  <span class="emphasis"><em>sources</em></span>), are transformed into a new text, customarily called
               the <span class="emphasis"><em>target</em></span>. Text reuse has directionality and is asymmetrical.
               But many times we deal with texts where the original lines of direction are contested
               or unknown. In those cases, it is misleading to refer to either of the texts as a
               source or a target. Indeed, they may in fact derive from a common source, or be the
               result of multiple generations of copying and translating. In these guidelines,
               therefore, we avoid the term <span class="italic">target</span> altogether,
               and when we use the word <span class="italic">source</span>, we are referring
               only to one of the class 1 files upon which the alignment depends.</p><p>Consequently, the first <code class="code">&lt;source&gt;</code> in an alignment file's
                  <code class="code">&lt;head&gt;</code> does not necessarily point to a version older than the
               others. But it will be processed first, and will therefore be the foundation or base
               against which subsequent sources will be aligned. It is usually a good idea to list
               as the first <code class="code">&lt;source&gt;</code> the version that is most complete or most
               important to a given alignment.</p><p>Take for example a work such as the <span class="italic">Life of Saint
                  Paul</span> (ca. early fourth century CE), which survives in both ancient
               Greek and Latin versions. The original language of composition is disputed. A TAN-A
               file that lists the Greek source first and the Latin second does not imply that the
               text was written in Greek. All it means is that anyone processing the TAN file should
               begin with the Greek before going to the Latin.</p></div><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table width="100%" summary="Navigation footer"><tr><td width="40%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="ch07.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td width="20%" align="center"><a accesskey="u" href="ch07.xhtml">Up</a></td><td width="40%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ch07s03.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td width="40%" align="left" valign="top">Chapter 7. Class 2 TAN files, Annotations of Texts </td><td width="20%" align="center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td width="40%" align="right" valign="top"> Division-Based Alignments (<code class="code">&lt;TAN-A-div&gt;</code>)</td></tr></table></div></body></html>