<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Lexico-Morphology</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../../css/TAN-guidelines.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.78.1"/><link rel="home" href="index.xhtml" title="The Text Alignment Network: Official Guidelines"/><link rel="up" href="ch07.xhtml" title="Chapter 7. Class 2 TAN files, Annotations of Texts"/><link rel="prev" href="ch07s04.xhtml" title="Token-Based Alignments (&lt;TAN-A-tok&gt;)"/><link rel="next" href="ch08.xhtml" title="Chapter 8. Class 3 TAN Files: Language and Script"/></head><body><div class="navheader"><table width="100%" summary="Navigation header"><tr><th colspan="3" align="center">Lexico-Morphology</th></tr><tr><td width="20%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="ch07s04.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th width="60%" align="center">Chapter 7. Class 2 TAN files, Annotations of Texts</th><td width="20%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ch08.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title" style="clear: both"><a id="tan-lm"/>Lexico-Morphology</h2></div></div></div><p>TAN-LM files are used to associate words or word fragments with lexemes and
               morphological categories. They are intended primarily to facilitate research that
               depends upon alignments, but they can interesting in their own right, whether or not
               there are other versions or alignments.</p><p>These files are indelibly reliant upon the grammatical rules declared for a given
               language, so these instructions should be read in close conjunction with the section
               devoted to the TAN-R-mor format (see <a class="xref" href="ch08s02.xhtml" title="Morphological Concepts and Patterns (TAN-R-mor)">the section called “Morphological Concepts and Patterns (TAN-R-mor)”</a>).</p><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 class="title"><a id="d5e4734"/>Principles and Assumptions</h3></div></div></div><p>TAN-LM files are assumed to be applicable to texts in languages whose
                  vocabulary lends itself to grammatical and lexicographical analysis. The two areas
                  are interrelated but can be treated independently. If you wish, your TAN-LM file
                  may contain only lexemes or only morphological analyses.</p><p>As an editor of a TAN-LM file you should understand the vocabulary and grammar
                  of the languages you have picked. You should have a good sense of the rules
                  established by the lexical and grammatical authorities you have chosen to
                  follow.</p><p>Although you must assume the point of view of a particular grammar and lexicon,
                  you need not define those authorities, nor hold to a single one. You at liberty to
                  choose the morphological scheme that best suits your opinions or purposes, as
                  defined in one or more TAN-R-mor files. In addition, you may bring to lexical
                  analysis your own expertise and supply lexical headwords unattested in printed
                  authorities.</p><p>Although TAN-LM files are simple, they can be laborious to read and write, more
                  than other types of TAN files. It is expected that an editor of a TAN-LM file will
                  find one or more tools to help create and edit the data.</p></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 class="title"><a id="d5e4740"/>Rootmost Element and Header</h3></div></div></div><p>The rootmost element of a lexico-morphological file is TAN-LM.</p><p>A mandatory <code class="code">&lt;source&gt;</code> element points to the one and only
                  TAN-T(EI) file that is the object of analysis. </p><p><code class="code">&lt;declarations&gt;</code> takes the elements common to class 2 files (see
                     <a class="xref" href="ch07.xhtml#class_2_metadata" title="Class 2 Metadata (&lt;head&gt;)">the section called “Class 2 Metadata (<code class="code">&lt;head&gt;</code>)”</a>. It takes two other elements unique to
                  TAN-LM: <code class="code">&lt;lexicon&gt;</code> and <code class="code">&lt;morphology&gt;</code>.</p><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h4 class="title"><a id="decl_lexicon"/><code class="code">&lt;lexicon&gt;</code></h4></div></div></div><p>
                     </p><div class="table"><a id="d5e4754"/><p class="title"><strong>Table 7.9. Synopsis of <code class="code">&lt;lexicon&gt;</code></strong></p><div class="table-contents"><table summary="Synopsis of &lt;lexicon&gt;" border="1"><colgroup><col class="c1"/><col class="c3"/><col class="c4"/><col class="c5"/><col class="newCol7"/><col class="newCol6"/><col class="c6"/></colgroup><thead><tr><th>name</th><th>req?</th><th>qty</th><th>parent</th><th>attributes</th><th>children</th><th>purpose</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code class="code">&lt;lexicon&gt;</code></td><td>no</td><td>one or more</td><td><code class="code">&lt;declarations&gt;</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>?, <code class="code">@xml:id</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#iri_and_name" title="IRI + name Pattern">the section called “IRI + name Pattern”</a>, <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#digital_entity_metadata" title="Digital Entity Metadata Pattern">the section called “Digital Entity Metadata Pattern”</a>?</td><td>names a lexicon that has been adopted</td></tr></tbody></table></div></div><p><br class="table-break"/>
                  </p><p>Each <code class="code">&lt;lexicon&gt;</code> may take an <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a> and
                     must take an <code class="code">@xml:id</code>. The element otherwise consists of an <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#iri_and_name" title="IRI + name Pattern">the section called “IRI + name Pattern”</a> that names a lexicon that has been adopted in the
                     lexical analysis.</p><p>You may include any number of lexica, which may be listed in any order you
                     wish. This will be important for source texts or languages where one lexicon is
                     not sufficient (true especially for medieval vernacular texts or for poorly
                     resourced modern languages). <code class="code">&lt;IRI&gt;</code> will most often point to URL
                     names (e.g., a Library of Congress Control Number for an authority in print) or
                     some other unique identifier for the authority used. If you or another editor
                     are a lexical authority, no separate <code class="code">&lt;lexicon&gt;</code> entry need be
                     given. Credit will be made to the appropriate <code class="code">&lt;agent&gt;</code>.</p><p>There is, at present, no standard exchange format for lexica and
                     dictionaries. So even if a digital form of a dictionary is identified through
                     the <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#digital_entity_metadata" title="Digital Entity Metadata Pattern">the section called “Digital Entity Metadata Pattern”</a>, no validation tests will be
                     performed.</p><div class="example"><a id="d5e4800"/><p class="title"><strong>Example 7.30. <code class="code">&lt;lexicon&gt;</code></strong></p><div class="example-contents"><pre class="programlisting">      ...........
   &lt;lexicon xml:id="LSJ"&gt;
      &lt;for-lang&gt;grc&lt;/for-lang&gt;
      &lt;IRI&gt;http://lccn.loc.gov/95032369&lt;/IRI&gt;
      &lt;name xml:lang="eng"&gt;Liddell-Scott-Jones, 9th ed. plus rev. supplement&lt;/name&gt;
   &lt;/lexicon&gt;
      ...........               </pre></div></div><br class="example-break"/></div></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 class="title"><a id="decl_grammar"/><code class="code">&lt;morphology&gt;</code></h3></div></div></div><p>
                  </p><div class="table"><a id="d5e4808"/><p class="title"><strong>Table 7.10. Synopsis of <code class="code">&lt;morphology&gt;</code></strong></p><div class="table-contents"><table summary="Synopsis of &lt;morphology&gt;" border="1"><colgroup><col class="c1"/><col class="c3"/><col class="c4"/><col class="c5"/><col class="newCol7"/><col class="newCol6"/><col class="c6"/></colgroup><thead><tr><th>name</th><th>req?</th><th>qty</th><th>parent</th><th>attributes</th><th>children</th><th>purpose</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code class="code">&lt;morphology&gt;</code></td><td>yes</td><td>one or more</td><td><code class="code">&lt;declarations&gt;</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>?, <code class="code">@xml:id</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#iri_and_name" title="IRI + name Pattern">the section called “IRI + name Pattern”</a>, <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#digital_entity_metadata" title="Digital Entity Metadata Pattern">the section called “Digital Entity Metadata Pattern”</a></td><td>names a TAN-R-mor file that has been adopted</td></tr></tbody></table></div></div><p><br class="table-break"/>
               </p><p>Each <code class="code">&lt;morphology&gt;</code> may take an <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a> and
                  must take an <code class="code">@xml:id</code>. The element otherwise consists of a <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#digital_entity_metadata" title="Digital Entity Metadata Pattern">the section called “Digital Entity Metadata Pattern”</a> that names and points to a TAN-R-mor
                  file.</p><p>Morphologies may be listed in any order you wish.</p><p>In most cases, there will be only one <code class="code">&lt;morphology&gt;</code> declaration.
                  Multiple values are permitted for texts with multiple languages, or for cases
                  where you wish to register alternative analyses.</p><div class="example"><a id="d5e4851"/><p class="title"><strong>Example 7.31. <code class="code">&lt;morphology&gt;</code></strong></p><div class="example-contents"><pre class="programlisting">      ...........
   &lt;morphology xml:id="Perseus"&gt;
      &lt;for-lang&gt;grc&lt;/for-lang&gt;
      &lt;IRI&gt;tag:jenny.park@example.com,2014:tan-m-rules:grc:perseus&lt;/IRI&gt;
      &lt;name xml:lang="eng"&gt;Perseus Greek morphology&lt;/name&gt;
      &lt;location when-accessed="2015-03-02"&gt;../TAN-R-mor/grc-1.xml&lt;/location&gt;
   &lt;/morphology&gt;
      ...........               </pre></div></div><br class="example-break"/></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 class="title"><a id="d5e4855"/>Data (<code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code>)</h3></div></div></div><div class="table"><a id="d5e4858"/><p class="title"><strong>Table 7.11. Synopsis of TAN-LM <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code>, <code class="code">&lt;ana&gt;</code>,
                        <code class="code">&lt;joined&gt;</code>, <code class="code">&lt;lm&gt;</code>, <code class="code">&lt;l&gt;</code>,
                        <code class="code">&lt;m&gt;</code></strong></p><div class="table-contents"><table summary="Synopsis of TAN-LM &lt;body&gt;, &lt;ana&gt;,&#xA;                        &lt;joined&gt;, &lt;lm&gt;, &lt;l&gt;,&#xA;                        &lt;m&gt;" border="1"><colgroup><col class="c1"/><col class="c3"/><col class="c5"/><col class="newCol7"/><col class="newCol6"/><col class="c6"/></colgroup><thead><tr><th>name</th><th>req?</th><th>parent</th><th>attributes</th><th>children</th><th>purpose</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code></td><td>yes</td><td><code class="code">&lt;TAN-LM&gt;</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05s04.xhtml#in_progress" title="@in-progress">the section called “@in-progress”</a>?, <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>?,
                                 <code class="code">@lexicon</code>, <code class="code">@morphology</code></td><td><code class="code">&lt;ana&gt;</code>+</td><td>contains data</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">&lt;ana&gt;</code></td><td>yes</td><td><code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>?, <code class="code">@cert</code>?,
                                 <code class="code">@lexicon</code>?, <code class="code">@morphology</code>?</td><td>(<code class="code">&lt;tok&gt;</code>|<code class="code">&lt;joined&gt;</code>)+,
                                 <code class="code">&lt;lm&gt;</code>*</td><td>aligns one or more tokens</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">&lt;joined&gt;</code></td><td>no</td><td><code class="code">&lt;ana&gt;</code></td><td><code class="code">@xml:id</code>?</td><td><code class="code">&lt;tok&gt;</code>, <code class="code">&lt;tok&gt;</code>+</td><td>joins two or more strings that should be joined and treated as a
                              single linguistic unit</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">&lt;lm&gt;</code></td><td>yes</td><td><code class="code">&lt;ana&gt;</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>?, <code class="code">@cert</code>?</td><td><code class="code">&lt;l&gt;</code>*, <code class="code">&lt;m&gt;</code>*</td><td>assert a lexico-morphological combination</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">&lt;l&gt;</code></td><td>no</td><td><code class="code">&lt;lm&gt;</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>?, <code class="code">@cert</code>?,
                                 <code class="code">@lexicon</code>?, <code class="code">@ord</code>?</td><td>data (xsd:string)</td><td>assert a lexeme</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">&lt;m&gt;</code></td><td>no</td><td><code class="code">&lt;lm&gt;</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>?, <code class="code">@cert</code>?,
                                 <code class="code">@morphology</code>?</td><td>data (xsd:string)</td><td>assert a morphological pattern</td></tr></tbody></table></div></div><br class="table-break"/><p>The <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code> of a TAN-LM file takes, in addition to the customary
                  optional attributes found in other TAN files (see <a class="xref" href="ch05s04.xhtml#in_progress" title="@in-progress">the section called “@in-progress”</a>
                  and <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>), two required attributes. <code class="code">@lexicon</code>
                  points to one or more lexica via <code class="code">&lt;lexicon&gt;</code> ids;
                     <code class="code">@morphology</code> takes only one morphology id. These values define the
                  default lexica and grammar of the analysis. </p><p><code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code> has only one type of child: one or more
                     <code class="code">&lt;ana&gt;</code>s.</p><p><code class="code">&lt;ana&gt;</code> (short for analysis) takes an optional <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a> as well as <code class="code">@cert</code> (see <a class="xref" href="ch07.xhtml#attr_cert" title="@cert">the section called “<code class="code">@cert</code>”</a>). The certainty expressed by <code class="code">@cert</code> governs
                  the entire <code class="code">&lt;ana&gt;</code>. <code class="code">&lt;ana&gt;</code> takes three types of
                  children: <code class="code">&lt;tok&gt;</code>, <code class="code">&lt;joined&gt;</code>, and
                     <code class="code">&lt;lm&gt;</code> (one or more each).</p><p>One or more <code class="code">&lt;tok&gt;</code>s use the token pattern to point to one or
                  more word tokens or word token fragments (see <a class="xref" href="ch07.xhtml#tok_pattern" title="&lt;tok&gt;">the section called “<code class="code">&lt;tok&gt;</code>”</a>).
                  Unlike uses of <code class="code">&lt;tok&gt;</code> in other class 2 files, a TAN-LM
                     <code class="code">&lt;tok&gt;</code> is to be treated as strictly a single token. If
                     <code class="code">@ref</code>, <code class="code">@ord</code>, or <code class="code">@chars</code> take multiple
                  values, these are to be treated as constituent parts of a single word token. This
                  feature allows words that have been inadvertently broken up by the tokenization
                  pattern to be rejoined for linguistic analysis. For example, you may wish to treat
                  "pom pom" as a single word token. Under this special definiton of
                     <code class="code">&lt;tok&gt;</code> the two parts of that word can be rejoined. </p><p>If a particular word or morpheme straddles two adjacent leaf divs, then the
                  references cannot be combined into a single <code class="code">&lt;tok&gt;</code>. In those cases,
                  the <code class="code">&lt;joined&gt;</code> element should be used to enclose the two or more
                     <code class="code">&lt;tok&gt;</code>s that define it.</p><p>Both <code class="code">&lt;joined&gt;</code> and <code class="code">&lt;tok&gt;</code> may take an
                     <code class="code">@xml:id</code> value, reserved for use by a future class-2 syntactic
                  format, which will use a TAN-LM file to relate a word token to its larger
                  syntactical relationships. </p><p>Each of one or more <code class="code">&lt;lm&gt;</code>s collect combinations of lexemes and
                  morphological patterns that are said to be true of the tokens picked. It takes an
                  optional <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a> and <code class="code">@cert</code> (see <a class="xref" href="ch07.xhtml#attr_cert" title="@cert">the section called “<code class="code">@cert</code>”</a>). <code class="code">&lt;lm&gt;</code> takes one or more
                     <code class="code">&lt;l&gt;</code>s and <code class="code">&lt;m&gt;</code>s.</p><p><code class="code">&lt;l&gt;</code>, which takes an optional <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a> and
                     <code class="code">@cert</code> (see <a class="xref" href="ch07.xhtml#attr_cert" title="@cert">the section called “<code class="code">@cert</code>”</a>), takes as its content the
                  name of the lexeme (main entry in a lexicon). The optional <code class="code">@lexicon</code>
                  may be used to specify a lexicon other than the default one declared in
                     <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code>. If a lexeme is unattested in the lexicons listed, you
                  may credit yourself as the authority by supplying the appropriate
                     <code class="code">&lt;agent&gt;</code> id reference.</p><p>The content of <code class="code">&lt;l&gt;</code> is a string that points to the main word
                  entry. In many languages, especially those that are lightly inflected, this word
                  will be identical to the word token itself. In those cases, <code class="code">&lt;l&gt;</code>
                  may be left empty, indicating that the value of <code class="code">&lt;tok&gt;</code> in the
                     <code class="code">&lt;ana&gt;</code> must be used. In this case, all values of
                     <code class="code">&lt;tok&gt;</code> must resolve to the same value, or a validation error
                  will result. If a lexicon has more than one entry, <code class="code">@ord</code> may be used
                  to specify with a number which entry or entries are meant (<a class="xref" href="ch07.xhtml#attr_ord_and_val" title="@ord and @val">the section called “<code class="code">@ord</code> and <code class="code">@val</code>”</a>). If <code class="code">@ord</code> is absent, the value is
                  assumed to be 1.</p><p>Values of <code class="code">&lt;l&gt;</code> point to lexical headwords, not to roots. Root
                  analysis reserved for lexicography, a discipline wholly different from
                  morphological analysis. There is at present no interoperable way to exchange
                  lexicographic data in the TAN format, but the format is set up to allow you, if
                  you wish, to create and develop a proprietary system.</p><p><code class="code">&lt;m&gt;</code>, which takes an optional <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a> and
                     <code class="code">@cert</code> (see <a class="xref" href="ch07.xhtml#attr_cert" title="@cert">the section called “<code class="code">@cert</code>”</a>), identifies a
                  morphological pattern that declares the inflectional categories for the word
                  tokens chosen. If a different TAN-R-mor file is intended than the one specified in
                     <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code>, the optional <code class="code">@morphology</code> may be used.
                  Unlike <code class="code">@lexicon</code>, you may not credit yourself. If you find a published
                  TAN-R-mor file inadequate, you must use an alternative.</p><p>The content of <code class="code">&lt;m&gt;</code> consists of one or more codes defined in the
                  chosen TAN-R-mor file. Codes are space-delimited. If a value of
                     <code class="code">&lt;m&gt;</code> violates the rules established by the TAN-R-mor file, an
                  error will be generated. For more about how codes are built, and how they
                  function, see <a class="xref" href="ch07s05.xhtml" title="Lexico-Morphology">the section called “Lexico-Morphology”</a>.</p><p>As a courtesy to TAN-LM editors, any <code class="code">&lt;m&gt;</code> that has too many
                  codes will return not only an error but the meanings of the valid codes currently
                  placed. For example, <code class="code">&lt;m&gt;rb ?&lt;/m&gt;</code> using a TAN-R-mor file with
                  only one <code class="code">&lt;category&gt;</code> might return this error: <code class="code">Too many codes,
                     which currently resolve: adverb</code>.</p><div class="example"><a id="d5e5044"/><p class="title"><strong>Example 7.32. TAN-LM <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code></strong></p><div class="example-contents"><p>
                     </p><pre class="programlisting">      ...........
    &lt;body lexicon="LSJ" morphology="Perseus"&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 title 1" ord="1"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l lexicon="new"&gt;Εὐάγριος&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;- e - s - - - m g -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1:title 1" ord="2"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;μοναχός&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;n - - s - - - m g -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="1"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ἐπεί&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;c - - - - - - - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="2"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ἐγώ&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;p p - s - - - - d -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="3"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;πρώην&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;d - - - - - - - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="4"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;δηλόω&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;v - 2 s r i a - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="5"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ἀπό&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;r - - - - - - - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="6"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ὁ&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;p a - s - - - n g -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="7"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ἅγιος&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;a - - s - - - n g -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="8"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ὄρος&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;n - - s - - - n g -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="9 | 21"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ἐν&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;r - - - - - - - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="10"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ὁ&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;p a - s - - - f d -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="11"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;Σκῆτις&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;n p - s - - - f d -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="12"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;καθέζομαι&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;v - - s p p m m d -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="13"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ποθεινός&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;a - - s - - - m v s&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="14"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ἀδελφός&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;n e - s - - - m v -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="15"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;Ἀνατόλιος&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;n e - s - - - m v -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="16"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;καί&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;c - - - - - - - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="17"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ὁ&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;p a - s - - - n a -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="18"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;συμβολικός&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;a - - s - - - n a -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="19"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;σχῆμα&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;n - - s - - - n a -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="20 | 46"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ὁ&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;p a - p - - - m g -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="22"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;Αἴγυπτος&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;n e - s - - - m d -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="23"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;μοναχός&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;n - - p - - - m g -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="24"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;σαφηνισθίζω&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;v - - - a n p - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="25"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;σύ&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;p p - s - - - - d -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="26"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;παρακαλέω&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;v - 2 s a i a - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="27"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;οὐ&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;d - - - - - - - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="28"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;γάρ&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;g - - - - - - - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="29"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;εἰκῇ&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;d - - - - - - - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="30"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;οὐδέ&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;c - - - - - - - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="31"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;παρέλκω&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;v - - s p p a n a -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="32"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;αὐτός&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;p p - s - - - n a -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="33"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;νομίζω&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;v - 2 s r i a - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="34"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;τοσοῦτος&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;p d - s - - - f a -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="35"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;παραλλαγή&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;n - - s - - - f a -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="36"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ἔχω&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;v - - s p p a n a -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="37 | 45"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;παρά&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;r - - - - - - - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="38"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ὁ&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;p a - p - - - n a -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="39"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;λοιπός&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;a - - p - - - n a -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="40"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;σχῆμα&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;n - - p - - - n a -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="41"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ὁ&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;p a - p - - - m g -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="42"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ἄνθρωπος&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;n - - p - - - m g -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="43"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;φέρω&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;v - 2 s p m a - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="44"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ὅσος&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;p r - p - - - n a -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="47"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ἅγιος&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;a - - p - - - m g -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;comment who="kalvesmaki" when="2014-02-10"&gt;Perseus morph addendum&lt;/comment&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="48"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;πατήρ&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;n - - p - - - m g -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="49"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;περί&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;r - - - - - - - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="50"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;οὗτος&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;p d - s - - - n g -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="51"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;μανθάνω&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;v - 1 p r i a - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      &lt;ana&gt;
         &lt;comment who="kalvesmaki" when="2014-02-10"&gt;Perseus morph addendum&lt;/comment&gt;
         &lt;tok ref="preface 1 section 1" ord="52"/&gt;
         &lt;lm&gt;
            &lt;l&gt;ἐξαγγέλλω&lt;/l&gt;
            &lt;m&gt;v - 1 p a s a - - -&lt;/m&gt;
         &lt;/lm&gt;
      &lt;/ana&gt;
      ...........
   &lt;/body&gt;
      ...........              </pre><p>
                  </p></div></div><br class="example-break"/></div></div><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table width="100%" summary="Navigation footer"><tr><td width="40%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="ch07s04.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td width="20%" align="center"><a accesskey="u" href="ch07.xhtml">Up</a></td><td width="40%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ch08.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td width="40%" align="left" valign="top">Token-Based Alignments (<code class="code">&lt;TAN-A-tok&gt;</code>) </td><td width="20%" align="center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td width="40%" align="right" valign="top"> Chapter 8. Class 3 TAN Files: Language and Script</td></tr></table></div></body></html>