<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Token-Based Alignments (&lt;TAN-A-tok&gt;)</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../../css/TAN-guidelines.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.78.1"/><link rel="home" href="index.xhtml" title="The Text Alignment Network: Official Guidelines"/><link rel="up" href="ch07.xhtml" title="Chapter 7. Class 2 TAN files, Annotations of Texts"/><link rel="prev" href="ch07s03.xhtml" title="Division-Based Alignments (&lt;TAN-A-div&gt;)"/><link rel="next" href="ch07s05.xhtml" title="Lexico-Morphology"/></head><body><div class="navheader"><table width="100%" summary="Navigation header"><tr><th colspan="3" align="center">Token-Based Alignments (<code class="code">&lt;TAN-A-tok&gt;</code>)</th></tr><tr><td width="20%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="ch07s03.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th width="60%" align="center">Chapter 7. Class 2 TAN files, Annotations of Texts</th><td width="20%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ch07s05.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title" style="clear: both"><a id="tan-a-tok"/>Token-Based Alignments (<code class="code">&lt;TAN-A-tok&gt;</code>)</h2></div></div></div><p>TAN-A-tok files provide a microscopic view of how two texts relate to each other.
               The format is intended to allow you to specify exactly where, how, and why two texts
               align, and to do so on the most granular level possible. TAN-A-tok files also allow
               you to express levels of confidence or alternative opinions.</p><p>Creators and editors of TAN-A-tok files should be able to read the languages of
               their sources and to explain as precisely as possible the relationship between the
               two sources. You should be prepared to think about and specify types of textual
               reuse. TAN-A-tok files tend to be more demanding to create and edit than TAN-A-div
               files are because they support work that is more detailed, and therefore more
               time-consuming, than simple en masse alignment of sources.</p><p>Because of the detailed nature of the inquiry, token alignment is restricted to
               two texts, referred to jointly as a <span class="italic">bitext</span>. Each
               half of the bitext must be a TAN-T(EI) file. It is assumed that those two sources
               share some special relationship, direct or indirect, and are the results of certain
               types of textual reuse, sometimes mixed: translation, paraphrase, commentary, and so
               forth. Some of these bitexts, such as literal translations, may line up quite nicely
               word for word. Others, such as paraphrases, may line up sporadically, vaguely, or
               ambiguously. Some bitexts produce few word-for-word correspondences. Therefore
               alignment of a bitext is frequently not easy, and requires you as a TAN-A editor to
               declare the assumptions you have made in two key areas: the relationship that holds
               from one source to the other and the types of reuse that was involved in turning one
               version into the other (or a common ancestor into both).</p><p><span class="bold"><strong>Relationship of sources</strong></span>. Some bitexts will be
               directly related. Others will be removed from each other, or a common original, by
               several generations. And that history may itself be uncertain or vague. You may find
               it difficult if not impossible to tell whether a striking difference between the two
               source texts is to be credited/blamed on a translator or on an intermediary (such as
               an editor or redactor). What you know and understand about the relationship will
               affect how you create token alignments. Therefore, you must declare what you believe
               to be the physical relationship or history that connects the two sources.</p><p><span class="bold"><strong>Types of reuse</strong></span>. In creating a TAN-A file, you
               should decide the types of text reuse you wish to declare. Such a declaration gives
               users of your data a sense of the paradigm you bring to your analysis. You may wish
               to keep your categories nondescript and somewhat vague, using terms such as
                  <span class="emphasis"><em>translation</em></span>, <span class="emphasis"><em>paraphrase</em></span>,
                  <span class="emphasis"><em>quotation</em></span>, and so forth without offering a specific
               definition. On the other hand, you may be specific and detailed, for example adopting
               field-specific categories such as <span class="emphasis"><em>obligatory explicitation</em></span>,
                  <span class="emphasis"><em>optional explicitation</em></span>, <span class="emphasis"><em>pragmatic
                  explicitation</em></span>, or <span class="emphasis"><em>translation-inherent
                  explicitation</em></span>. You may also wish to declare secondary types of reuse,
               such as <span class="italic">scribal omission</span> or <span class="italic">dittography</span>, to declare secondary types of reuse that may
               have intervened. You must declare at least one type of reuse.</p><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 class="title"><a id="d5e4486"/>Rootmost Element and Header</h3></div></div></div><p>The rootmost element of a token-based alignment file is
                     <code class="code">&lt;TAN-A-tok&gt;</code>.</p><p>The TAN-A-tok header builds upon the core and class 2 headers (see <a class="xref" href="ch05s03.xhtml" title="Metadata (&lt;head&gt;)">the section called “Metadata (<code class="code">&lt;head&gt;</code>)”</a> and <a class="xref" href="ch07.xhtml#class_2_metadata" title="Class 2 Metadata (&lt;head&gt;)">the section called “Class 2 Metadata (<code class="code">&lt;head&gt;</code>)”</a>).</p><p>TAN-A-tok files take exactly two <code class="code">&lt;source&gt;</code>s. The sequence is
                  arbitrary, determining only the order in which most processors will handle the
                  data. Each <code class="code">&lt;source&gt;</code> must take an <code class="code">@xml:id</code>.</p><p><code class="code">&lt;declarations&gt;</code> takes, in addition to all the elements allowed
                  in class 2 files (see <a class="xref" href="ch07.xhtml#class_2_metadata" title="Class 2 Metadata (&lt;head&gt;)">the section called “Class 2 Metadata (<code class="code">&lt;head&gt;</code>)”</a>), two elements unique to
                  TAN-A-tok: <code class="code">&lt;bitext-relation&gt;</code> and <code class="code">&lt;reuse-type&gt;</code>. The
                  first of these describes genealogical descent of the two versions, and is
                  concerned with directionality. The second avoids these categories altogether and
                  focuses on the qualitative aspect of the bitext relationship.</p><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h4 class="title"><a id="bitext_relation"/><code class="code">&lt;bitext-relation&gt;</code></h4></div></div></div><p>
                     </p><div class="table"><a id="d5e4506"/><p class="title"><strong>Table 7.6. Synopsis of <code class="code">&lt;bitext-relation&gt;</code></strong></p><div class="table-contents"><table summary="Synopsis of &lt;bitext-relation&gt;" border="1"><colgroup><col class="c1"/><col class="c3"/><col class="c4"/><col class="c5"/><col class="newCol7"/><col class="newCol6"/><col class="c6"/></colgroup><thead><tr><th>name</th><th>req?</th><th>qty</th><th>parent</th><th>attributes</th><th>children</th><th>purpose</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code class="code">&lt;bitext-relation&gt;</code></td><td>yes</td><td>one or more</td><td><code class="code">&lt;declarations&gt;</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>?, <code class="code">@xml:id</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#iri_and_name" title="IRI + name Pattern">the section called “IRI + name Pattern”</a></td><td>names a relation that holds between two textual
                                    sources</td></tr></tbody></table></div></div><p><br class="table-break"/>
                  </p><p><code class="code">&lt;bitext-relation&gt;</code>s may take an <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>
                     and must take an <code class="code">@xml:id</code>. <code class="code">&lt;bitext-relation&gt;</code>
                     otherwise consists of an <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#iri_and_name" title="IRI + name Pattern">the section called “IRI + name Pattern”</a> that names a type of
                     relationship that holds between any two texual objects. This relationship
                     pertains to the </p><p>In most cases, there will be only a single
                     <code class="code">&lt;bitext-relation&gt;</code>. Multiple values are permitted for situations
                     where a bitext has a complex history, for example, a textual object that was
                     created over time, and in different phases.</p><p>There is, at present, no known stable, independent IRI vocabulary to
                     describe bitext relations. Therefore a handful of TAN-minted <a class="link" href="iris.xml" target="_top">iris.xml</a> may be of assistance. It is hoped that use of this
                     vocabulary will contribute to more formalized vocabularies in
                     stemmatics.</p><div class="example"><a id="d5e4550"/><p class="title"><strong>Example 7.23. <code class="code">&lt;bitext-relation&gt;</code>: unclear</strong></p><div class="example-contents"><pre class="programlisting">      ...........
   &lt;bitext-relation xml:id="unclear"&gt;
      &lt;IRI&gt;tag:textalign.net,2015:bitext-relation:unclear&lt;/IRI&gt;
      &lt;name&gt;unclear&lt;/name&gt;
      &lt;desc&gt;The two versions bear some relationship, but what exactly is
          unclear.&lt;/desc&gt;
   &lt;/bitext-relation&gt;
      ...........               </pre></div></div><br class="example-break"/><div class="example"><a id="d5e4554"/><p class="title"><strong>Example 7.24. <code class="code">&lt;bitext-relation&gt;</code>: direct descent</strong></p><div class="example-contents"><pre class="programlisting">      ...........
   &lt;bitext-relation xml:id="b-x-a"&gt;
      &lt;IRI&gt;tag:textalign.net,2015:bitext-relation:b/x/a&lt;/IRI&gt;
      &lt;name&gt;direct relationship, A descends from B, one mediary.&lt;/name&gt;
      &lt;desc&gt;The first source comes from the second source, via a single intermediary.&lt;/desc&gt;
   &lt;/bitext-relation&gt;
      ...........               </pre></div></div><br class="example-break"/><div class="example"><a id="d5e4558"/><p class="title"><strong>Example 7.25. <code class="code">&lt;bitext-relation&gt;</code>: indirect descent</strong></p><div class="example-contents"><pre class="programlisting">      ...........
   &lt;bitext-relation xml:id="b-x-a"&gt;
      &lt;IRI&gt;tag:textalign.net,2015:bitext-relation:/a,/x*/b&lt;/IRI&gt;
      &lt;name&gt;parent of A is ancestor of B.&lt;/name&gt;
      &lt;desc&gt;The first source comes directly from the direct ancestor of the second source (via
          one or more intermediaries).&lt;/desc&gt;
   &lt;/bitext-relation&gt;
      ...........               </pre></div></div><br class="example-break"/></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h4 class="title"><a id="reuse_type"/><code class="code">&lt;reuse-type&gt;</code></h4></div></div></div><div class="table"><a id="d5e4566"/><p class="title"><strong>Table 7.7. Synopsis of <code class="code">&lt;reuse-type&gt;</code></strong></p><div class="table-contents"><table summary="Synopsis of &lt;reuse-type&gt;" border="1"><colgroup><col class="c1"/><col class="c3"/><col class="c4"/><col class="c5"/><col class="newCol7"/><col class="newCol6"/><col class="c6"/></colgroup><thead><tr><th>name</th><th>req?</th><th>qty</th><th>parent</th><th>attributes</th><th>children</th><th>purpose</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code class="code">&lt;reuse-type&gt;</code></td><td>yes</td><td>one or more</td><td><code class="code">&lt;declarations&gt;</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>?, <code class="code">@xml:id</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#iri_and_name" title="IRI + name Pattern">the section called “IRI + name Pattern”</a></td><td>names a type of text reuse</td></tr></tbody></table></div></div><p><br class="table-break"/>One or more <code class="code">&lt;reuse-type&gt;</code>s, which take the <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#iri_and_name" title="IRI + name Pattern">the section called “IRI + name Pattern”</a>, declare the types of text reuse that are relevant
                     to the bitext. Each <code class="code">&lt;reuse-type&gt;</code> must include
                        <code class="code">@xml:id</code>. </p><p>It is up to you to determine how specific or vague you wish to define your
                     reuse types. If you prefer categories that are common to translation studies or
                     textual criticism, you should probably employ terminology others are using, if
                     it can be found. But if you find the terms to be poorly defined or difficult to
                     locate, and you wish to define your own, you may coin your own through a UUID
                     or a tag URN.</p><p>There is, at present, no known stable, independent IRI vocabulary to
                     describe types of textual reuse. See the <a class="link" href="iris.xml" target="_top">supplementary document</a> for a list of TAN-minted IRIs .</p><div class="example"><a id="d5e4607"/><p class="title"><strong>Example 7.26. <code class="code">&lt;reuse-type&gt;</code>: quotation</strong></p><div class="example-contents"><pre class="programlisting">      ...........
   &lt;reuse-type xml:id="quotation"&gt;
      &lt;IRI&gt;tag:textalign.net,2015:reuse-type:quotation:general&lt;/IRI&gt;
      &lt;name&gt;quotation, general&lt;/name&gt;
      &lt;desc&gt;One version quotes from the other&lt;/desc&gt;
   &lt;/reuse-type&gt;
      ...........               </pre></div></div><br class="example-break"/><div class="example"><a id="d5e4611"/><p class="title"><strong>Example 7.27. <code class="code">&lt;reuse-type&gt;</code>: translation in general</strong></p><div class="example-contents"><pre class="programlisting">      ...........
   &lt;reuse-type xml:id="trans-gen"&gt;
      &lt;IRI&gt;tag:textalign.net,2015:reuse-type:translation:general&lt;/IRI&gt;
      &lt;name&gt;general translation&lt;/name&gt;
      &lt;desc&gt;One version is a translation of the other.&lt;/desc&gt;
   &lt;/reuse-type&gt;
      ...........               </pre></div></div><br class="example-break"/><div class="example"><a id="d5e4615"/><p class="title"><strong>Example 7.28. <code class="code">&lt;reuse-type&gt;</code>: paraphrastic translation</strong></p><div class="example-contents"><pre class="programlisting">      ...........
   &lt;reuse-type xml:id="trans-loose"&gt;
      &lt;IRI&gt;tag:textalign.net,2015:reuse-type:translation:paraphrastic&lt;/IRI&gt;
      &lt;name&gt;paraphrastic translation&lt;/name&gt;
      &lt;desc&gt;One version is a loose translation of the other.&lt;/desc&gt;
   &lt;/reuse-type&gt;
      ...........               </pre></div></div><br class="example-break"/></div></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 class="title"><a id="d5e4619"/>Data (<code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code>)</h3></div></div></div><div class="table"><a id="d5e4622"/><p class="title"><strong>Table 7.8. Synopsis of TAN-A-tok <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code>,
                     <code class="code">&lt;align&gt;</code></strong></p><div class="table-contents"><table summary="Synopsis of TAN-A-tok &lt;body&gt;,&#xA;                     &lt;align&gt;" border="1"><colgroup><col class="c1"/><col class="c3"/><col class="c4"/><col class="c5"/><col class="newCol7"/><col class="newCol6"/><col class="c6"/></colgroup><thead><tr><th>name</th><th>req?</th><th>qty</th><th>parent</th><th>attributes</th><th>children</th><th>purpose</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code></td><td>yes</td><td>one</td><td><code class="code">&lt;TAN-A-tok&gt;</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05s04.xhtml#in_progress" title="@in-progress">the section called “@in-progress”</a>?, <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>?,
                                 <code class="code">@bitext-relation</code>, <code class="code">@reuse-type</code></td><td><code class="code">&lt;align&gt;</code>+</td><td>contains data</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">&lt;align&gt;</code></td><td>yes</td><td>one or more</td><td><code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code></td><td><code class="code">@xml:id</code>?, <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>?,
                                 <code class="code">@cert</code>?, <code class="code">@bitext-relation</code>?,
                                 <code class="code">@reuse-type</code>?</td><td><a class="xref" href="ch07.xhtml#tok_pattern" title="&lt;tok&gt;">the section called “<code class="code">&lt;tok&gt;</code>”</a>+</td><td>aligns one or more tokens</td></tr></tbody></table></div></div><br class="table-break"/><p>The <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code> of a TAN-A-tok file takes, in addition to the
                  customary optional attributes found in other TAN files (see <a class="xref" href="ch05s04.xhtml#in_progress" title="@in-progress">the section called “@in-progress”</a> and <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>), required
                     <code class="code">@bitext-relation</code> and <code class="code">@reuse-type</code>, which take one or
                  more id references from <code class="code">&lt;bitext-relation&gt;</code> and
                     <code class="code">&lt;reuse-type&gt;</code>, defining the defaults of the alignment.
                     <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code> has only one type of child: one or more
                     <code class="code">&lt;align&gt;</code>s.</p><p><code class="code">&lt;align&gt;</code> may take an <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a> as well as
                     <code class="code">@cert</code> to indicate certainty or confidence (see <a class="xref" href="ch07.xhtml#attr_cert" title="@cert">the section called “<code class="code">@cert</code>”</a>). An optional <code class="code">@xml:id</code> allows you to refer to
                  a specific alignment (see possible uses below). An optional
                     <code class="code">@reuse-type</code> and <code class="code">@bitext-relation</code> may be used to
                  override the default values in <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code>. </p><p><code class="code">&lt;align&gt;</code> has only one type of child: one or more
                     <code class="code">&lt;tok&gt;</code>s (see <a class="xref" href="ch07.xhtml#tok_pattern" title="&lt;tok&gt;">the section called “<code class="code">&lt;tok&gt;</code>”</a>). These collectively
                  form a <span class="italic">token cluster</span>. Each token cluster is
                  valid independent of the construction of any other token cluster. Token clusters
                  overlap in part, in whole, or not at all. This reflects the nature of
                  translations, in which words can easily fall in one-to-one, one-to-many,
                  many-to-one, and many-to-many relationships. Or there may be differences of
                  opinion, and you may wish to register different opinions. If you supply an
                     <code class="code">&lt;align&gt;</code> with an <code class="code">@xml:id</code> then you effectively name
                  your token cluster, and permit references to it, and therefore discussions about
                  it.</p><p>Unlike TAN-A-div files, under which a processor will assume automatic,
                  transitive, greedy alignment, TAN-A-tok files specify the opposite. Nothing should
                  be inferred about two texts outside of explicitly stated alignments. If a
                  TAN-A-tok file does not mention word tokens that are in a source, it does not mean
                  that they were, for example, left out of a translation. All it means is that the
                  creators and editors of the TAN-A-tok file have nothing to say about the tokens. </p><p>If you wish to declare that one or more words in one source were left out of a
                  translation or inserted into one, you must do so through a <span class="italic">half-null alignment</span>, i.e., a token cluster that has tokens from one
                  source but not the other. That is, a half-null alignment implies—to drawn from the
                  terminology of translation studies—implicitation or explicitation for a given type
                  of text reuse (defined by <code class="code">@reuse-type</code>).</p><p>Because nothing can be implied in a TAN-A-tok file, the status of
                     <code class="code">@in-progress</code> (default = true) is very important, since it is the
                  only way to signal that you have said all you intend to say about the bitext.
                  (Remember, <code class="code">in-progress = "false"</code> does not mean that the file is free
                  of errors, only that the entire scope of work has been finished.)</p><p>A fully aligned bitext may result in a TAN-A-tok file with a very long
                     <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code> (in contrast to a typical TAN-A-div file). That does not
                  mean, however, that everything in a transcription <span class="emphasis"><em>must </em></span>be
                  encoded or described. A TAN-A-tok file does not commit you to saying everything
                  possible about the bitext. You might choose to encode only a few token
                  clusters.</p><p><code class="code">@bitext-relation</code> and <code class="code">@reuse-type</code> are inheritable
                  attributes (see <a class="xref" href="ch07.xhtml#inheritable_attributes" title="Inheritable attributes">the section called “Inheritable attributes”</a>). That is, they declare
                  the assumptions made for a given range of data. Any <code class="code">@cert</code> does not
                  express certainty about these values. Rather, <code class="code">@cert</code> is to be
                  interpreted to mean: "Assuming the abovementioned <code class="code">@bitext-relation</code>
                  and <code class="code">@reuse-type</code> to be true, I have <code class="code">@cert</code> confidence
                  about the following assertions:...."</p><p>If there are multiple IDs in <code class="code">@reuse-type</code> or
                     <code class="code">@bitext-relation</code>, the union, not the intersection, of those values
                  is to be understood. For example, <code class="code">reuse-type="trans para"</code> might be
                  used to indicate that the token cluster results from translation, paraphrase, or
                  both. </p><div class="example"><a id="d5e4724"/><p class="title"><strong>Example 7.29. TAN-A-tok <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code></strong></p><div class="example-contents"><p>
                     </p><pre class="programlisting">      ...........
    &lt;body bitext-relation="unclear" reuse-type="adaptation" in-progress="false"&gt;
        &lt;align&gt;
            &lt;tok src="ring1881" ref="line 1" ord="1"/&gt;
            &lt;tok src="ring1987" ref="l 1" ord="1"/&gt;
        &lt;/align&gt;
        &lt;align&gt;
            &lt;tok src="ring1881" ref="line 2" val="pocket"/&gt;
            &lt;tok src="ring1987" ref="l 2" val="pocket"/&gt;
        &lt;/align&gt;
        &lt;align&gt;
            &lt;tok src="ring1881" ref="line 3" ord="1" cert="high"/&gt;
            &lt;tok src="ring1881" ref="line 3" ord="2"/&gt;
            &lt;tok src="ring1987" ref="l 3" ord="1"/&gt;
        &lt;/align&gt;
    &lt;/body&gt;
      ...........              </pre><p>
                  </p></div></div><br class="example-break"/></div></div><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table width="100%" summary="Navigation footer"><tr><td width="40%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="ch07s03.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td width="20%" align="center"><a accesskey="u" href="ch07.xhtml">Up</a></td><td width="40%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ch07s05.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td width="40%" align="left" valign="top">Division-Based Alignments (<code class="code">&lt;TAN-A-div&gt;</code>) </td><td width="20%" align="center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td width="40%" align="right" valign="top"> Lexico-Morphology</td></tr></table></div></body></html>