<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Morphological Concepts and Patterns (TAN-R-mor)</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../../css/TAN-guidelines.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.78.1"/><link rel="home" href="index.xhtml" title="The Text Alignment Network: Official Guidelines"/><link rel="up" href="ch08.xhtml" title="Chapter 8. Class 3 TAN Files: Language and Script"/><link rel="prev" href="ch08.xhtml" title="Chapter 8. Class 3 TAN Files: Language and Script"/><link rel="next" href="pt03.xhtml" title="Part III. Working with the Text Alignment Network"/></head><body><div class="navheader"><table width="100%" summary="Navigation header"><tr><th colspan="3" align="center">Morphological Concepts and Patterns (TAN-R-mor)</th></tr><tr><td width="20%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="ch08.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th width="60%" align="center">Chapter 8. Class 3 TAN Files: Language and Script</th><td width="20%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="pt03.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title" style="clear: both"><a id="tan-r-mor"/>Morphological Concepts and Patterns (TAN-R-mor)</h2></div></div></div><p>TAN-R-mor files describe the morphological categories for a given language and the
               rules allowed in applying them to any given word token. The format allows
               specificity, flexibility, and responsiveness. Assertions in the format may be
               doubted, rules may be expressed as contingent upon other coniditons, and warnings and
               error messages may be sent to users who may have used a pattern incorrectly, or not
               in with the best practices.</p><p>The TAN-R-mor format is, in essence, like a Schematron language for languages.
               That is, you may specify series of reports and assertions to be made, based upon how
               user of the format tries to combine morphological features. So a user is not only
               able to see if the rules have been violated, but why, and exactly where.</p><p>This chapter should be read in close conjunction with that pertaining to TAN-LM
               files, which exclusively depend upon them (<a class="xref" href="ch07s05.xhtml" title="Lexico-Morphology">the section called “Lexico-Morphology”</a>).</p><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 class="title"><a id="d5e5337"/>Principles and Assumptions</h3></div></div></div><p>Certain assumptions and recommendations are made regarding morphology files,
                  complementing the more general ones; see <a class="xref" href="ch01s03.xhtml" title="Design Principles">the section called “Design Principles”</a>.</p><p>TAN-R-mor files are restricted exclusively to the description of the
                  inflectional categories that characterize a language, and to declare rules that
                  restrict how those categories can be declared or combined. Editors of these files
                  should be familiar with the grammar of the languages they are describing.</p><p>The TAN-R-mor format has been designed under the assumption that word formation
                  and inflection, in any given language, can be analyzed in different ways. It is
                  also assumed that patterns of word inflection and formation can be categorized,
                  classified, named, and described. Even if two views of a single language are in
                  disagreement, those disagreements should be stated in comparable terms, when
                  possible.</p><p>For example, not everyone agrees on the number of major parts of speech in
                  English. And among those who think there are only eight, some name and define
                  those eight categories in ways that are at odds the consensus of modern linguists.
                  The older paradigm held to a major category called <span class="italic">conjunctions</span>, whereas most linguists prefer to break this into two
                  major categories, <span class="italic">subordinators</span> and <span class="italic">coordinators</span>.</p><p>The TAN-R-mor format has also been designed to cater to two approaches to
                  coding the morphological features of a language: structured or unstructured. </p><p>Structured codes are created with a presumption of a set number of categories
                  into which various features of morphology should be combined. Structured codes are
                  of a set length, and usually require gaps in different spots. For example, the
                  Perseus approach to the morphological categories of Greek, Latin, and other highly
                  inflected languages dictate ten categories, with the first two being the major and
                  minor parts of speech, and the subsequent categories devoted to person, number,
                  tense, and so forth. For each word being analyzed, all ten categories must have a
                  value, even if null.</p><p>Morphology based on unstructured codes relies upon a single master set of tags
                  for morphological features. Word tokens in that language can be given one or more
                  tags drawn from that set. This approach is viable for any language, but it is most
                  often found in tagging sets for languages that have little inflection, e.g., the
                  Brown and Penn sets for English.</p><p>Both structured and unstructured approaches begin the same in every TAN-R-mor
                  file: a set of all possible morphological features, in the
                     <code class="code">&lt;declarations&gt;</code> part of the header. If one wishes, this set can
                  then be assigned a series of categories, to turn the unstructured tag set into a
                  structured one. This process is described below.</p></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 class="title"><a id="d5e5352"/>Rootmost Element and Header</h3></div></div></div><p>The rootmost element of a morphological rule file is
                     <code class="code">&lt;TAN-R-mor&gt;</code>.</p><p>Zero or more <code class="code">&lt;source&gt;</code> elements describe the grammars or related
                  works that account for the rules declared in the TAN file. If the rules are not
                  based upon any published work, then <code class="code">&lt;source&gt;</code> may be omitted. Any
                  TAN-R-mor file without a source will assume to be based upon the personal
                  knowledge of the <code class="code">&lt;agent&gt;</code>s who edited the file.</p><p><code class="code">&lt;declarations&gt;</code> takes two types of element, one or more
                     <code class="code">&lt;for-lang&gt;</code>s that take a standard language code (see <a class="xref" href="ch04s03.xhtml#language" title="xsd:language">xsd:language</a>) and one or more <code class="code">&lt;feature&gt;</code>s that declare
                  the morphological features that characterize the languages being described.</p><p><span class="bold"><strong>&lt;I left off at this point. This entire section needs
                     to be rewritten in light of the new TAN-R-mor schemas.&gt;</strong></span></p><p>
                  </p><div class="example"><a id="d5e5368"/><p class="title"><strong>Example 8.6. TAN-R-mor <code class="code">&lt;head&gt;</code></strong></p><div class="example-contents"><p>
                        </p><pre class="programlisting">      ...........
   &lt;head&gt;
      &lt;name&gt;Perseus rules for Greek morphology&lt;/name&gt;
      &lt;rights-excluding-sources rights-holder="kalvesmaki"&gt;
         &lt;IRI&gt;http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/deed.en_US&lt;/IRI&gt;
         &lt;name&gt;Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;name&gt;This license is granted independent of rights and licenses associated with the
            source. &lt;/name&gt;
      &lt;/rights-excluding-sources&gt;
      &lt;source&gt;
         &lt;IRI&gt;urn:uuid:147d8040-4ca9-11e3-848f-0002a5d5c51b:2013-11-18&lt;/IRI&gt;
         &lt;name&gt;Perseus codes&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;desc xml:lang="eng"&gt;Perseus's standard code for Greek morphology (a string of 10 chars.),
            found at http://perseus.uchicago.edu/about.html (accessed 2013-11-18)&lt;/desc&gt;
      &lt;/source&gt;
      &lt;declarations&gt;
         &lt;for-lang&gt;grc&lt;/for-lang&gt;
      &lt;/declarations&gt;
      &lt;agent xml:id="kalvesmaki" roles="editor"&gt;
         &lt;IRI&gt;http://viaf.org/viaf/299582703&lt;/IRI&gt;
         &lt;IRI&gt;tag:kalvesmaki@gmail.com,2014:self&lt;/IRI&gt;
         &lt;name&gt;Joel Kalvesmaki&lt;/name&gt;
      &lt;/agent&gt;
      &lt;role xml:id="editor"&gt;
         &lt;IRI&gt;http://schema.org/editor&lt;/IRI&gt;
         &lt;name&gt;Editor&lt;/name&gt;
      &lt;/role&gt;
      &lt;change who="kalvesmaki" when="2014-02-26"&gt;File created&lt;/change&gt;
      &lt;comment when="2013-11-16" who="kalvesmaki"&gt;This was written to codify for the TAN system
         the 10-character codes developed by Perseus for ancient Greek. &lt;/comment&gt;
   &lt;/head&gt;
      ...........              </pre><p>
                     </p></div></div><p><br class="example-break"/>
               </p></div><div class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 class="title"><a id="d5e5373"/>Data (<code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code>)</h3></div></div></div><p>
                  </p><div class="table"><a id="d5e5377"/><p class="title"><strong>Table 8.2. Synopsis of TAN-R-mor <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code>,
                           <code class="code">&lt;invalid-pattern&gt;</code>, <code class="code">&lt;category&gt;</code>,
                           <code class="code">&lt;option&gt;</code></strong></p><div class="table-contents"><table summary="Synopsis of TAN-R-mor &lt;body&gt;,&#xA;                           &lt;invalid-pattern&gt;, &lt;category&gt;,&#xA;                           &lt;option&gt;" border="1"><colgroup><col class="c1"/><col class="c3"/><col class="c4"/><col class="c5"/><col class="newCol7"/><col class="newCol6"/><col class="c6"/></colgroup><thead><tr><th>name</th><th>req?</th><th>qty</th><th>parent</th><th>attributes</th><th>children</th><th>purpose</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code></td><td>yes</td><td>one</td><td><code class="code">&lt;TAN-R-mor&gt;</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05s04.xhtml#in_progress" title="@in-progress">the section called “@in-progress”</a>?, <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>?</td><td><code class="code">&lt;invalid-pattern&gt;</code>*,
                                 <code class="code">&lt;category&gt;</code>+</td><td>contains data</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">&lt;invalid-pattern&gt;</code></td><td>no</td><td>one or more</td><td><code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>?, <code class="code">@cert</code>?</td><td>text (xsd:string)</td><td>declares a pattern of space-delimited codes disallowed</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">&lt;category&gt;</code></td><td>yes</td><td>one or more</td><td><code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>?</td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#iri_and_name" title="IRI + name Pattern">the section called “IRI + name Pattern”</a>,
                                 <code class="code">&lt;option&gt;</code>+</td><td>collects a group of morphological concepts</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">&lt;option&gt;</code></td><td>yes</td><td>one or more</td><td><code class="code">&lt;category&gt;</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>?, <code class="code">@code</code></td><td><a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#iri_and_name" title="IRI + name Pattern">the section called “IRI + name Pattern”</a></td><td>names a morphological concept that is a viable option for the
                                 given category</td></tr></tbody></table></div></div><p><br class="table-break"/>
               </p><p>The <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code> of a TAN-R-mor file takes the customary optional
                  attributes found in other TAN files (see <a class="xref" href="ch05s04.xhtml#in_progress" title="@in-progress">the section called “@in-progress”</a> and <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>). <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code> has only two type of children:
                  zero or more <code class="code">&lt;invalid-pattern&gt;</code>s followed by one or more
                     <code class="code">&lt;category&gt;</code>s followed by zero or more
                     <code class="code">&lt;invalid-pattern&gt;</code>s .</p><p><code class="code">&lt;invalid-pattern&gt;</code> takes a regular expression defining patterns
                  of codes that are disallowed (explained below). Aside from an optional <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a> and <code class="code">@cert</code>?, it takes only text, followed
                  perhaps by a single <code class="code">&lt;comment&gt;</code>. <code class="code">@cert</code> takes a numeral
                  from 0 to 1 or else <code class="code">&lt;high&gt;</code> or <code class="code">&lt;low&gt;</code>, which are to
                  be translated to mean "is probably" and "is probably not" respectively. </p><p><code class="code">&lt;category&gt;</code>, in addition to an optional <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a>, takes the <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#iri_and_name" title="IRI + name Pattern">the section called “IRI + name Pattern”</a> to describe a
                  category of morphological terms, and one or more <code class="code">&lt;option&gt;</code>s.</p><p><code class="code">&lt;option&gt;</code>, which describes a single morphological concept, takes
                  an <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#edit_stamp" title="Edit Stamp">the section called “Edit Stamp”</a> and the <a class="xref" href="ch05.xhtml#iri_and_name" title="IRI + name Pattern">the section called “IRI + name Pattern”</a>. It also
                  takes a mandatory <code class="code">@code</code>, which must be unique within a given
                  category. But that value may be used in other <code class="code">&lt;category&gt;</code>s.
                     <code class="code">@code</code> may by anything that is not a space character or a hyphen
                  (reserved for the concept "not applicable").</p><p>There is no particular rule as to what concepts are allowed in a
                     <code class="code">&lt;category&gt;</code>. In highly inflected languages, it makes sense to
                  categorize according to part of speech. For languages with little inflection, a
                  single <code class="code">&lt;category&gt;</code> might contain all the options available.</p><p>The TAN-R-mor file will be referred to by TAN-LM files by using one or more
                     <code class="code">@code</code> values, space delimited, with each value corresponding in
                  order to the <code class="code">&lt;category&gt;</code> order. For example, if a Greek TAN-R-mor
                  file is assigned ten categories, then any TAN-LM file using that file will have a
                  value that looks like <code class="code">x x x x x x x x x x</code>, where <code class="code">&lt;x&gt;</code>
                  is a code value. If a particular category is not applicable, the hyphen is used.
                  Anyone using the TAN-R-mor file will not be able to cite more than one
                     <code class="code">&lt;option&gt;</code> in a given <code class="code">&lt;category&gt;</code>.</p><p><code class="code">@code</code> values may rendered in any case you wish, but they must not
                  be treated as case-sensitive. If within any category one <code class="code">@code</code> is a
                  case variant of another (e.g., <code class="code">&lt;S&gt;</code> and <code class="code">&lt;s&gt;</code>), then
                  the file will be marked as invalid.</p><p>Every <code class="code">&lt;option&gt;</code> must refer to a morphological concept that is
                  unique within the entire file. That is, if you wish to allow the concept <span class="italic">adverb</span> as an option, that <code class="code">&lt;option&gt;</code>
                  must appear in only one <code class="code">&lt;category&gt;</code>, and no others.</p><p>Collectively, all the <code class="code">@code</code> and <code class="code">&lt;category&gt;</code>s
                  provide the maximal limits of what is allowed. <code class="code">&lt;invalid-pattern&gt;</code>
                  allows you to restrict those limits to what is permitted in standard grammatical
                  analysis. Let us take for example a TAN-R-mor file that defines the term <span class="italic">conjunction</span> in the first <code class="code">&lt;category&gt;</code>
                  and <span class="italic">first-person</span> in the second, and let us
                  suppose the language has no concept of a first-person conjunction. You may
                  disallow this combination in an <code class="code">&lt;invalid-pattern&gt;</code> with the pattern
                     <code class="code">^c 1</code>, where <code class="code">&lt;c&gt;</code> and <code class="code">&lt;1&gt;</code> are the
                  codes for the two concepts. (The <code class="code">^</code> is a standard regular expression
                  anchor, indicating that <code class="code">&lt;c&gt;</code> should be at the beginning of the
                  searched string.) These patterns may be combined in accordance with regular
                  expressions (see <a class="xref" href="ch04s03.xhtml#regular_expressions" title="Regular Expressions">the section called “Regular Expressions”</a>). They make the presumption
                  that the string has had its space normalized, so <code class="code">\s+</code> ("one or more
                  space characters") is not necessary in an
                  <code class="code">&lt;invalid-pattern&gt;</code>.</p><p>If you are editing a TAN-R-mor file that has already been published, and you
                  are adding or altering the pattern invalidity restrictions. In this case, it is a
                  good idea to make sure that <code class="code">@in-progress</code> is removed or set to false,
                  and to add new <code class="code">&lt;invalid-pattern&gt;</code>s with the <code class="code">@cert</code> set
                  to a value other than 1. Doing so means that anyone using the old version will not
                  have their data rendered invalid, and it will alert them both to new rules that
                  have been included. At some point, after editing is complete you will be prepared
                  to declare the morphology file to be a new version altogether. At that point,
                  change the IRI name of the file, remove the <code class="code">@cert</code> values that were
                  placeholders, and save the file as a different file name. Do not remove the older,
                  published version, since users may be depending upon it.</p><p>Although it is good practice to declare as many invalid patterns as you can,
                  you are not required to state every possible combination that is not allowed. If
                  you are not confident that a given pattern should be disallowed, use the
                     <code class="code">@cert</code> value in <code class="code">&lt;invalid-pattern&gt;</code>. Any TAN-LM file
                  using that value will not be marked as invalid, but a warning will be delivered to
                  the user, along with the content of any <code class="code">&lt;comment&gt;</code> that is
                  included.</p><p>Because an example is the best way to illustrate how one might structure
                  categories in a TAN-R-mor <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code>, a full
                  <code class="code">&lt;example&gt;</code>, but with </p><div class="example"><a id="d5e5529"/><p class="title"><strong>Example 8.7. TAN-R-mor <code class="code">&lt;body&gt;</code></strong></p><div class="example-contents"><p>
                     </p><pre class="programlisting">      ...........
   &lt;body&gt;
      &lt;category&gt;
         &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Part_of_speech&lt;/IRI&gt;
         &lt;name&gt;major part of speech&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;option code="a"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Adjective&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;adjective&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="c"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Conjunction&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;conjunction&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="d"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Adverb&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;adverb&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="e"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;tag:textalign.net,2015:morphology:concept:ωvocative&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;ω vocative&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="g"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Grammatical_particle&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;particle&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="i"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Interjection&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;interjection&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="m"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Numeral_(linguistics)&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;numeral&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="n"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Noun&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;noun&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="p"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pronoun&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;pronoun&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="r"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Preposition&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;preposition&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="v"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Verb&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;verb&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="y"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Acronym&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;acronym&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
      &lt;/category&gt;
      &lt;category&gt;
         &lt;IRI&gt;urn:uuid:40aa0be5-6746-4f39-b70f-6c94fd1e4578 &lt;/IRI&gt;
         &lt;name&gt;minor part of speech&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;option code="a"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Article_(grammar)&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;article or determinative&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="c"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Reciprocal_pronoun&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;reciprocal pronoun&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="d"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Demonstrative&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;demonstrative&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="e"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Proper_noun&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;proper&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="i"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Interrogative&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;interrogative&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="k"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Reflexive_pronoun&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;reflexive&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="m"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;tag:textalign.net,2015:morphology:concept:modal&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;modal&lt;/name&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;modal (particle)&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="p"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Personal_pronoun&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;personal pronoun&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="r"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Relative_pronoun&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;relative pronoun&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="s"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Possessive_pronoun&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;possessive pronoun&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="v"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;tag:textalign.net,2015:morphology:concept:verbal&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;verbal&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="x"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Indefinite_pronoun&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;indefinite&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
      &lt;/category&gt;
      &lt;category&gt;
         &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Grammatical_person&lt;/IRI&gt;
         &lt;name&gt;person&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;option code="1"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;urn:uuid:754589f6-8f64-11e3-950a-425861b86ab6&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;first person&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="2"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;urn:uuid:75458d20-8f64-11e3-950a-425861b86ab6&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;second person&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="3"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;urn:uuid:75459068-8f64-11e3-950a-425861b86ab6&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;third person&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
      &lt;/category&gt;
      &lt;category&gt;
         &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Grammatical_number&lt;/IRI&gt;
         &lt;name&gt;number&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;option code="d"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dual_(grammatical_number)&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;dual&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="p"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Plural&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;plural&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="s"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Singulative_number&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;singular&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
      &lt;/category&gt;
      &lt;category&gt;
         &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Grammatical_tense&lt;/IRI&gt;
         &lt;name&gt;tense&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;option code="a"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Aorist&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;aorist&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="f"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Future_tense&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;future&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="i"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Imperfect_tense&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;imperfect&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="l"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Pluperfect&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;pluperfect&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="p"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Present_tense&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;present&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="r"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Perfect_tense&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;perfect&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="t"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Future_perfect&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;future perfect&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
      &lt;/category&gt;
      &lt;category&gt;
         &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Grammatical_mood&lt;/IRI&gt;
         &lt;name&gt;mood&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;option code="i"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Realis_mood&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;indicative&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="m"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Imperative_mood&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;imperative&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="n"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Infinitive&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;infinitive&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="o"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Optative_mood&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;optative&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="p"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Participle&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;participle&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="s"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Subjunctive_mood&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;subjunctive&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
      &lt;/category&gt;
      &lt;category&gt;
         &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Voice_(grammar)&lt;/IRI&gt;
         &lt;name&gt;voice&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;option code="a"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Active_voice&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;active&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="e"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Mediopassive_voice&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;middle-passive&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="m"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Middle_voice#Middle&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;middle&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="p"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Passive_voice&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;passive&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
      &lt;/category&gt;
      &lt;category&gt;
         &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Grammatical_gender&lt;/IRI&gt;
         &lt;name&gt;gender&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;option code="c"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Common_gender&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;common&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="f"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Feminine_gender&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;feminine&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="m"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Masculine_gender&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;masculine&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="n"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Neuter_gender&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;neuter&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
      &lt;/category&gt;
      &lt;category&gt;
         &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Grammatical_case&lt;/IRI&gt;
         &lt;name&gt;case&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;option code="a"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Accusative&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;accusative&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="d"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Dative&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;dative&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="g"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Genitive&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;genitive&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="n"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Nominative&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;nominative&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="v"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Vocative&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;vocative&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
      &lt;/category&gt;
      &lt;category&gt;
         &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Comparison_(grammar)&lt;/IRI&gt;
         &lt;name&gt;degree&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;option code="c"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Comparative&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;comparative&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
         &lt;option code="s"&gt;
            &lt;IRI&gt;http://dbpedia.org/resource/Superlative&lt;/IRI&gt;
            &lt;name&gt;superlative&lt;/name&gt;
         &lt;/option&gt;
      &lt;/category&gt;
      &lt;invalid-pattern cert="high"&gt;^e&lt;/invalid-pattern&gt;
      &lt;comment who="kalvesmaki" when="2015-02-28"&gt;Code e has been deprecated. It was used in some
         cases for ὦ voc., to be distinguished from ὦ as exclamation &lt;/comment&gt;
      &lt;invalid-pattern cert="high"&gt;^. v&lt;/invalid-pattern&gt;
      &lt;comment who="kalvesmaki" when="2015-02-28"&gt;Code v for verbal adjective has been deprecated. &lt;/comment&gt;
      &lt;invalid-pattern&gt;^c[^ -]&lt;/invalid-pattern&gt;
      &lt;comment who="kalvesmaki" when="2015-02-28"&gt;A conjunction has no other inflectional properties.&lt;/comment&gt;
   &lt;/body&gt;
      ...........              </pre><p>
                  </p><div class="caption"><p>This example provides one morphological analysis of the Greek language.
                        It furnishes only three of many possible <code class="code">&lt;invalid-pattern&gt;</code>s,
                        to keep the example brief. Any TAN-LM editor that uses in a morphological
                        analysis will be warned or find their file is rendered invalid when: (1)
                           <code class="code">&lt;e&gt;</code> is the first value (warning only); (2)
                           <code class="code">&lt;v&gt;</code> is the second value (warning only); (3)
                           <code class="code">&lt;c&gt;</code> is the first value and is followed by other values,
                        except for the hyphens (i.e., not applicable) (fully invalid). In each case,
                        the first comment that follows the <code class="code">&lt;invalid-pattern&gt;</code> will be
                        delivered to the editor.</p></div></div></div><br class="example-break"/></div></div><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table width="100%" summary="Navigation footer"><tr><td width="40%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="ch08.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td width="20%" align="center"><a accesskey="u" href="ch08.xhtml">Up</a></td><td width="40%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="pt03.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td width="40%" align="left" valign="top">Chapter 8. Class 3 TAN Files: Language and Script </td><td width="20%" align="center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td width="40%" align="right" valign="top"> Part III. Working with the Text Alignment Network</td></tr></table></div></body></html>