<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Chapter 2. Normalization</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../../css/TAN-guidelines.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.78.1"/><link rel="home" href="iris-index.xhtml" title="The Text Alignment Network: Recommended IRI Vocabularies"/><link rel="up" href="iris-index.xhtml" title="The Text Alignment Network: Recommended IRI Vocabularies"/><link rel="prev" href="iris-ch01.xhtml" title="Chapter 1. Divisions"/><link rel="next" href="iris-ch03.xhtml" title="Chapter 3. Transliterations"/></head><body><div class="navheader"><table width="100%" summary="Navigation header"><tr><th colspan="3" align="center">Chapter 2. Normalization</th></tr><tr><td width="20%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="iris-ch01.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th width="60%" align="center"> </th><td width="20%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="iris-ch03.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div><div class="chapter"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title"><a id="normalization_iris"/>Chapter 2. Normalization</h1></div></div></div><p>The IRIs listed below attach to normalizations that should be understood as broadly and
         therefore subjectively defined. Such declarations are not meant to help restore an original
         source, but to alert users as to what wholesale alterations have been made to a source.</p><p>
         </p><div class="table"><a id="d5e232"/><p class="title"><strong>Table 2.1. Normalization IRIs</strong></p><div class="table-contents"><table summary="Normalization IRIs" border="1"><colgroup><col class="c1"/><col class="c2"/></colgroup><thead><tr><th>IRI</th><th>desc</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:hyphens-discretionary-removed</code></td><td>Discretionary word-break line-end hyphens have been deleted.</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:space-typographer-converted</code></td><td>General Punctuation spaces (U+2000..U+200B) to regular space have been
                        replaced with regular space. Equivalent to <code class="code">fn:replace('[\x{2000}
                           \x{2001} \x{2002} \x{2003} \x{2004} \x{2005} \x{2006} \x{2007} \x{2008}
                           \x{2009} \x{200A} \x{200B}]',' ')</code></td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:signals-note-removed</code></td><td>Footnote or endnote signals (frequently superscript numbers or letters)
                        have been deleted.</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:comments-editorial-removed</code></td><td>Editorial comments have been deleted.</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:pointers-reference-removed</code></td><td>Reference pointers to other texts, both internal (cross-references) and
                        external (citations of primary or secondary sources) have been
                        deleted.</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:milestones-reference-removed</code></td><td>Reference milestones such as page numbers and section numbers have been
                        deleted.</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:ligatures-converted</code></td><td>All ligatures have been converted into constituent letters.</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:letters-combining-converted</code></td><td>All combining letters (U+0363..U+036F) have been converted to their
                        corresponding ASCII counterpart.</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:orthography-corrected</code></td><td>All orthography (spelling) has been tacitly corrected to standard
                        forms.</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:punctuation-corrected</code></td><td>All punctuation has been tacitly corrected to standard forms.</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:punctuation-removed</code></td><td>All punctuation has been removed.</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:capitalization-corrected</code></td><td>All letters have been tacitly capitalized according to standard
                        forms.</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:case-upper-to-lower</code></td><td>All uppercase letters converted to lowercase.</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:case-lower-to-upper</code></td><td>All lowercase letters converted to uppercase.</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:music-printed-removed</code></td><td>Printed music has been removed.</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:space-prepunctuation-corrected</code></td><td>All prepunctuation space has been removed.</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:nfc</code></td><td>All non-NFC-compliant Unicode converted to normalized Unicode. Same
                        effect as if running <code class="code">normalize-unicode(.)</code> on a node.</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:html-to-tan-t</code></td><td>HTML converted to TAN-T format</td></tr><tr><td><code class="code">tag:textalign.net,2015:normalization:reference-numbers-suppress</code></td><td>Reference numbers suppressed</td></tr></tbody></table></div></div><p><br class="table-break"/>
      </p></div><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table width="100%" summary="Navigation footer"><tr><td width="40%" align="left"><a accesskey="p" href="iris-ch01.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td width="20%" align="center"> </td><td width="40%" align="right"> <a accesskey="n" href="iris-ch03.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td width="40%" align="left" valign="top">Chapter 1. Divisions </td><td width="20%" align="center"><a accesskey="h" href="iris-index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td width="40%" align="right" valign="top"> Chapter 3. Transliterations</td></tr></table></div></body></html>